cmd/prompt.md, before:

# Beans - Agentic Issue Tracker

This project uses **beans**, an agentic-first issue tracker. Issues are called "beans", and you can
use the "beans" CLI to manage them.

All commands support --json for machine-readable output. Use this flag to parse responses easily.

## Core Rules

- After compaction or clear, run `beans prompt` to re-sync
- Track ALL work using beans (no TodoWrite tool, no markdown TODOs). If you identify something that should be tracked, create a bean for it.
- All bean commands support the `--json` flag for machine-readable output.
- Use `beans create` to create issues, not TodoWrite tool
- When completing work, mark the bean as done using `beans update <bean-id> --status done`. If you're about to create a commit, do this first.
- Lean towards using sub-agents for interacting with beans.
- You can inspect `.beans/config.yaml` to learn about the different issue types and statuses configured for this project.

## Finding work

- `beans list --json` to list all beans (bodies not included by default)
- `beans list --json --include-body` to include full body content

## Working on a bean

- `beans update <bean-id> --status in-progress --json` to mark a bean as in-progress
- `beans show <bean-id> --json` to see full details including body
- Adhere to the instructions in the bean's body when working on it

## Creating new beans

- `beans create --help`
- Example: `beans create "Fix login bug" -d "Users cannot log in when..." -s open --no-edit`
- When creating new beans, include a useful body. If you're not sure what to write, ask the user.
- Make the body as detailed as possible, similar to a plan that you would create for yourself.
- If possible, split the work into a checklist of GitHub-Formatted-Markdown tasks. Use a `## Checklist` header to precede it.

## Cleaning up beans

- `beans archive` will archive (delete) beans marked as done.

Commit message:

refactor!: Standardize on 'description' terminology instead of 'body'
- Rename Bean.Body field to Bean.Description
- Change JSON field from "body" to "description"
- Rename --body-only flag to --description-only in show command
- Rename --include-body flag to --full in list command
- Update all tests and documentation

cmd/prompt.md, after:

# Beans - Agentic Issue Tracker

This project uses **beans**, an agentic-first issue tracker. Issues are called "beans", and you can
use the "beans" CLI to manage them.

All commands support --json for machine-readable output. Use this flag to parse responses easily.

## Core Rules

- After compaction or clear, run `beans prompt` to re-sync
- Track ALL work using beans (no TodoWrite tool, no markdown TODOs). If you identify something that should be tracked, create a bean for it.
- All bean commands support the `--json` flag for machine-readable output.
- Use `beans create` to create issues, not TodoWrite tool
- When completing work, mark the bean as done using `beans update <bean-id> --status done`. If you're about to create a commit, do this first.
- Lean towards using sub-agents for interacting with beans.
- You can inspect `.beans/config.yaml` to learn about the different issue types and statuses configured for this project.

## Finding work

- `beans list --json` to list all beans (descriptions not included by default)
- `beans list --json --full` to include full description content

## Working on a bean

- `beans update <bean-id> --status in-progress --json` to mark a bean as in-progress
- `beans show <bean-id> --json` to see full details including description
- Adhere to the instructions in the bean's description when working on it

## Creating new beans

- `beans create --help`
- Example: `beans create "Fix login bug" -d "Users cannot log in when..." -s open --no-edit`
- When creating new beans, include a useful description. If you're not sure what to write, ask the user.
- Make the description as detailed as possible, similar to a plan that you would create for yourself.
- If possible, split the work into a checklist of GitHub-Formatted-Markdown tasks. Use a `## Checklist` header to precede it.

## Cleaning up beans

- `beans archive` will archive (delete) beans marked as done.
